## Why?

Now let's do a bit of why if I still have time :)

Why would you want to have a system that allows you to turn some components into React Nodes (instead of just turning them into HTML)?

Because your React app is fully hydrated on the client you can still use all the same patterns that you used before.

### Component level loaders

But by wrapping a client component with a server one you can give each client component its loader (and actions).

```tsx
export default async function Posts() {
  const posts = await fetchPosts();
  return <>{posts.length}</>;
}
```

This code doesn't require `Posts` to be a page-level component (or layout). You can use it anywhere in your app.

<!-- which is a lot of the promise of Relay -->

### Moving more server code into React

In early SSR days, the assumption was that you can do something like this:

```tsx
const props = await fetchPageProps();
const html = ReactDOMServer.renderToString(<App {...props} />);
```

Notice that `renderToString` is synchronous. That means that you have to fetch all the data before you have any chance to send the first byte to the browser.

That means that everything related to data-loading has to live outside of React, so you had to have `getServerSideProps`, `loader`, `meta`, etc. By using RSC we can move all of that into React.

So it's more like this:

```tsx
const html = ReactDOMServer.renderToString(async () => {
  const props = await fetchPageProps();
  return <App {...props} />;
});
```

This allowed us to move `await` inside the component.

### More control

Let's make the example a bit more complicated (and realistic):

```tsx
const { pipe } = ReactDOMServer.renderToPipeableStream(async () => {
  const something = await fetchSomething();
  if (!something) {
    return <NotFoundPage />;
  }
  return (
    <Something data={something}>
      <Stuff moreStuff={async () => fetch("/somethingelse")} />
    </Something>
  );
});
pipe(response);
```

And we can do that sort of logic deeper in the tree now compared to just one top-level component.

### Better bundle splitting

Have you noticed that `if (!something)` in the example above? Because none of that is running on the client by the time we are sending you the first byte we already know what client bundle your browser needs to download. This is similar to `React.lazy` but you will get full benefits fo SSR and you are not getting waterfalls of client code downloading.
