The second way of looking at RSCs (data loading)

# Remix won data loading

Every modern framework has Remix style loaders:

- Remix and React Router - loader/action
- SvelteKit - load/actions
- Qwik - routeLoader$/routeAction$
- SolidJS - routeData/createRouteAction

Well, maybe not everyone, the rest are doing TanStack Query-style data loading:

- Next* - tRPC
- Nuxt - useAsyncData

# What does RSC bring to the table?

This is how server rendering in your app looks now:

```tsx
// server.tsx
import { App, loader } from "./page.tsx";
const loaderData = await loader(); // AWAIT here
reactRenderToString(
  <body>
    <script>window.__HYDRATION_DATA__ = ${JSON.stringify(loaderData)}</script>
    <App />
  </body>,
);
```

```tsx
// page.tsx
export const loader = () => {
  return fetch("https://some/data");
};
export const App = () => {
  const data = useLoaderData();
  return <div>Home {data}</div>;
};
```

This is how you can write it now with async components:

```tsx
// server.tsx
import { App } from "./page.tsx";
// no hydration for RSCs
reactRenderToString(<App />);
```

```tsx
// page.tsx
export const loader = () => {
  return fetch("https://some/data");
};
export const App = async () => {
  const data = await loader(); // AWAIT here
  return <div>Home {data}</div>;
};
```

# Is this better?

Well... kind of? Remember in the previous section we said that instead of bundling being done on the route level we can control it on the component level? Now we can control data loading on the component level.

# BUT

Two big things are wrong with this approach.

- First is that you need to rely on some kind of cache for deduplication, otherwise, if you have `await user()` in 10 components that loader is going to be executed 10 times.
  - Next is patching `fetch` to fix precisely that. The pattern they create is that `fetch("/current-user")` will fetch just once using URL as the cache key.
- Second. This is slow. Not in a cute "ha-ha, Rust is fast" way, but in a "server-side DB waterfalls" way. You have to wait for each "await" before you can start sending HTML to the client.
  - You can utilize streaming and server-side `Suspense` but it's not "fixing" anything, it just shows more spinners to the user.
  - To make your requests in parallel you either need to coordinate that from the top level and use `Promise.all` or you need TasStack Query style prefetching (which might lead to over-fetching).

All that gives me the impression that data loading in RSCs at a very primitive level, that is, they basically gave you `useContext` hook, but you probably want to use Jotai or Redux in a "real app", those primitives are not enough. That's why I'm so excited to see Remix that is built on top of RSCs, which could bring great DX and performance into this mess.

# More realistic example (it has an overfetching bug)

```ts
const App = async () => {
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    fetchUser();
    fetchSidebar();
    const posts = await fetchPosts();
    return (
      <Home>
        <Posts data={posts} />
      </Home>
    );
  }
};

const Home = async () => {
  const user = await fetchUser();
  if (!user) {
    return <div>Not logged in</div>;
  }
  const sidebar = await fetchSidebar();
  return (
    <>
      <Nav />
      <Sidebar data={sidebar} />
    </>
  );
};

const Nav = async () => {
  const user = await fetchUser();
  return <div>Hi, {user.name}</div>;
};
```

TODO: Astro DEMO

TODO: Using async components in Client/SSR code

# A bit about Next.js

revalidatePath
revalidateTag

I'm too dumb to understand how async components work in client code, so I'm just going to say that "it's possible to do that", so let's see what is going to happen in Server Components.

In order words, now

And you don't actually need RSCs to use this loader pattern.

[DEMO TIME]

renderToString

The easiest way to think about it is that you can implement any

[example](./demos/astro/src/ui/Loader.tsx)

Async components actually work in regular client React, but the issue with that code is that "fetch" would be called 3 times if you are not using RSCs (one time on server, twice on client, and one time more if you are in StrictMode).

We are not going to talk about how async components run in client because it's too complicated :) but it's possible if you like to think about caching and reference equality.

But the same code running inside RSCs makes a lot of sense, it will wait for all data to be ready before rendering it to string.
